README.md, before:

# Deep Convolutional Generative Adversarial Networks with TensorFlow

In this tutorial, we will try to build a GAN that is able to generate human faces with TensorFlow. Sounds scary, doesn’t it?

This repository contains source code corresponding to our article ["Deep Convolutional Generative Adversarial Networks with TensorFlow"](https://www.oreilly.com/ideas/deep-convolutional-generative-adversarial-networks-with-tensorflow).

## Setup

### Download via Git

1. Go to your home directory by opening your terminal and entering `cd ~`

2. Clone the repository by entering

    ```
    git clone https://github.com/dmonn/dcgan-oreilly.git
    ```
	
### Option 1: Dockerfiles (Recommended)

3. After cloning the repo to your machine, enter

    ```
    docker build -t dcgan_<image_type> -f ./dockerfiles/Dockerfile.<image_type> ./dockerfiles/
    ```

    where `<image_type>` is either `gpu` or `cpu`. (Note that, in order to run these files on your GPU, you'll need to have a compatible GPU, with drivers installed and configured properly [as described in TensorFlow's documentation](https://www.tensorflow.org/install/).)

4. Run the Docker image by entering

    ```
    docker run -it -p 8888:8888 -v <path to repo>:/root dcgan_<image_type>
    ```

    where `<image_type>` is either `gpu` or `cpu`, depending on the image you built in the last step.

5. After building, starting, and attaching to the appropriate Docker container, run the provided Jupyter notebooks by entering

    ```
    jupyter notebook --ip 0.0.0.0
    ```

    and navigate to [http://0.0.0.0:8888](http://0.0.0.0:8888) in your browser.
    
6. Choose `DCGANs with Tensorflow.ipynb` to open the Notebook.
	
#### Debugging docker
If you receive an error of the form:

```
WARNING: Error loading config file:/home/rp/.docker/config.json - stat /home/rp/.docker/config.json: permission denied
Got permission denied while trying to connect to the Docker daemon socket at unix:///var/run/docker.sock: Get http://%2Fvar%2Frun%2Fdocker.sock/v1.26/images/json: dial unix /var/run/docker.sock: connect: permission denied
```

It's most likely because you installed Docker using sudo permissions with a packet manager such as `brew` or `apt-get`. To solve this `permission denied` simply run docker with `sudo` (ie. run `docker` commands with `sudo docker <command and options>` instead of just `docker <command and options>`).

### Option 2: Local setup using Miniconda

If you don't have or don't want to use Docker, you can follow these steps to setup the notebook.

3. Install miniconda using [one of the installers and the miniconda installation instructions](https://conda.io/miniconda.html). Use Python3.6.

4. After the installation, create a new virtual environment, using this command.
	```
	$ conda create -n dcgan
	$ source activate venv
	```
   
5. You are now in a virtual environment. Next up, [install TensorFlow by following the instructions](https://www.tensorflow.org/install/).

6. To install the rest of the dependenies, navigate into your repository and run 

	```
	$ pip install -r dockerfiles/requirements.txt
	```
   
7. Now you can run 

	```
	jupyter notebook
	```
	
	to finally start up the notebook. A browser should open automatically. If not, navigate to [http://127.0.0.1:8888](http://127.0.0.1:8888) in your browser. 
	
8. Choose `DCGANs with Tensorflow.ipynb` to open the Notebook.

## Requirements

A helper function will download the [CelebA dataset](http://mmlab.ie.cuhk.edu.hk/projects/CelebA.html) to your machine. This will need up to 3GB of disk space!

Commit message:

Creation of a Jupyter Notebook, modif to the README.md file

README.md, after:

# Deep Convolutional Generative Adversarial Networks with TensorFlow

In this tutorial, we will try to build a GAN that is able to generate human faces with TensorFlow. Sounds scary, doesn’t it?

This repository contains source code corresponding to our article ["Deep Convolutional Generative Adversarial Networks with TensorFlow"](https://www.oreilly.com/ideas/deep-convolutional-generative-adversarial-networks-with-tensorflow).

> *** Note ***:<br/>
> The derived Jupyter Notebook «DCGANs_with_Tensorflow_extended.ipynb» is a small contribution <br/> by Claude COULOMBE, PhD candidate, TÉLUQ / UQAM - Montreal.

## Setup

### Download via Git

1. Go to your home directory by opening your terminal and entering `cd ~`

2. Clone the repository by entering

    ```
    git clone https://github.com/dmonn/dcgan-oreilly.git
    ```
	
### Option 1: Dockerfiles (Recommended)

3. After cloning the repo to your machine, enter

    ```
    docker build -t dcgan_<image_type> -f ./dockerfiles/Dockerfile.<image_type> ./dockerfiles/
    ```

    where `<image_type>` is either `gpu` or `cpu`. (Note that, in order to run these files on your GPU, you'll need to have a compatible GPU, with drivers installed and configured properly [as described in TensorFlow's documentation](https://www.tensorflow.org/install/).)

4. Run the Docker image by entering

    ```
    docker run -it -p 8888:8888 -v <path to repo>:/root dcgan_<image_type>
    ```

    where `<image_type>` is either `gpu` or `cpu`, depending on the image you built in the last step.

5. After building, starting, and attaching to the appropriate Docker container, run the provided Jupyter notebooks by entering

    ```
    jupyter notebook --ip 0.0.0.0
    ```

    and navigate to [http://0.0.0.0:8888](http://0.0.0.0:8888) in your browser.
    
6. Choose `DCGANs with Tensorflow.ipynb` to open the Notebook.
	
#### Debugging docker
If you receive an error of the form:

```
WARNING: Error loading config file:/home/rp/.docker/config.json - stat /home/rp/.docker/config.json: permission denied
Got permission denied while trying to connect to the Docker daemon socket at unix:///var/run/docker.sock: Get http://%2Fvar%2Frun%2Fdocker.sock/v1.26/images/json: dial unix /var/run/docker.sock: connect: permission denied
```

It's most likely because you installed Docker using sudo permissions with a packet manager such as `brew` or `apt-get`. To solve this `permission denied` simply run docker with `sudo` (ie. run `docker` commands with `sudo docker <command and options>` instead of just `docker <command and options>`).

### Option 2: Local setup using Miniconda

If you don't have or don't want to use Docker, you can follow these steps to setup the notebook.

3. Install miniconda using [one of the installers and the miniconda installation instructions](https://conda.io/miniconda.html). Use Python3.6.

4. After the installation, create a new virtual environment, using this command.
	```
	$ conda create -n dcgan
	$ source activate venv
	```
   
5. You are now in a virtual environment. Next up, [install TensorFlow by following the instructions](https://www.tensorflow.org/install/).

6. To install the rest of the dependenies, navigate into your repository and run 

	```
	$ pip install -r dockerfiles/requirements.txt
	```
   
7. Now you can run 

	```
	jupyter notebook
	```
	
	to finally start up the notebook. A browser should open automatically. If not, navigate to [http://127.0.0.1:8888](http://127.0.0.1:8888) in your browser. 
	
8. Choose `DCGANs with Tensorflow.ipynb` to open the Notebook.

## Requirements

A helper function will download the [CelebA dataset](http://mmlab.ie.cuhk.edu.hk/projects/CelebA.html) to your machine. This will need up to 3GB of disk space!
